# Hate-Speech-Detection
## Overview
This project involves the classification of hate speech and offensive language used by Twitter users on their tweets. In addition, correlation analysis was conducted to see if their was a relationship between number hate speech words and number offensive language words used in a sentence. Furthermore, co-occurrence analysis was conducted to find the top 10 most appeared words from the dataset. The data for this project is sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/hate-speech-and-offensive-language-detection)
## Methodology
Firstly the texts were cleaned by the utilization of the regular expression library and the texts were processed via the NLTK library. Moving on three machine learning models were created: Support Vector Classifier, Multinomial Naive Bayes classifier and K-Nearest Neighbors classifier. Then hyperparameter tuning was conducted to determined the best parameters to improve the accuracy of the models.
## Conclusion
Overall, the tuned Support Vector Classifier produced the highest accuracy 0.901. Hate speech was able to be detected extremely precisely with a precision score of 0.927 however the compared to the other 2 labels hate speech had the smallest amount of test data. Moreover offensive langauge was accurately classified with a precision score of 0.823. The correlation analysis conducted showed there was a weak relationship with hate speech and offensive language with a Pearson's r coefficient being -0.262 and the p-value being 0.00.
